Hi I'm Juliette Orizetti from link farm
here in niagara on the lake and we're out
here with our pigs in the forest, so our farming
philosophy really is based around our animals
when we started farming it was coming
from a background in animal welfare
so our main goal is to raise our animals in an as
humane a way as possible while also respecting our
farm so we want to be as sustainable and holistic
as we can, we've been raising pigs since 2015
but we also have a large focus on grass-fed
sheep and we've started raising grass-fed
beef as well in the last couple years and just
to round it out we have a flock of laying hens
so our sows are all purebred berkshires, they're
known as the kobe beef of pork and we're really
not interested in any lean meats here so we really
want that marbling and then we crossbreed them
with a duroc boar which is a more modern breed
but it has the most marbling of all the commercial
pigs, well the pigs here they're omnivores like we
are so they need complete protein in their diet
but they're also really great foragers so
they do eat a lot of grass in our pasture
as well as nuts and roots and bugs that they
find on the ground but we of course have to
feed them as well they need complete protein and
the best source of protein for pigs is from grain
so we feed a balanced diet of field peas
barley and oats, the the ratio sort of varies
throughout the year but no soy no corn for our
pigs and of course we we add you know minerals
and vitamins that they need to their diet and
then it sort of varies with the season so in the
fall of course they're getting seasonal
fruit and vegetables so lots of apples and pears
donated from our customers and then in later
in the season they'll get lots of pumpkins but
right now they're noshing pretty hard on the
acorns from our oak trees they live out here in
a in an oak forest they've got about four acres
to forage from and that really makes our fall pork
quite special, my favorite cut is the blade steak so sometimes some people call it a butt chop
i think that demeans it, so it comes from the
upper shoulder sort of neck area of the pig
it's super marbled it's tender it's juicy,
it fools most people into thinking it's beef
and that doesn't get any better for me, by
supporting a small farmer you're supporting
your local economy which is super important
i mean it makes my dreams come true right so
that's fantastic there's so many benefits like we
because we're a small farm and a small business
we are also supporting another small farmer who
makes our grain mix for us he's a grain grower
he's being supported, we also use a
small butcher, so that's a family-run
business that's being supported rather
than you know a foreign-owned huge abattoir
what else, everything we support the local
cold storage company it really keeps everything
within you know a small radius none of that money
is leaving our local economy but also we
have the ability to be nimble in how we farm which
i think allows us to be very sustainable in terms
of ecology so we we only raise 100 pigs a year
we're not doing it in an intensive way
so we have a 15-acre forest here and by staying
small we're able to move our pigs through the
forest in a sustainable way so they're never in
one area for too long always moving so that we
save space for the wildlife and yeah just
everything we do we try to do in a
sustainable way, there's we don't have someone
dictating to us what the pigs need to be fed
how we need to raise them so we can really make
choices with our conscience, so from from birth
they start at about two pounds of weight ,like i
said, but they grow super fast so by six months
old on average they'll be at least 300 pounds live
weight which we aim for 300 to 350 pounds and
that'll give us a pig that's 220 to 270 pounds
hanging weight and that's a lot bigger than your
commercial pigs are going to be but we find that
it's really that last 50, at least 50
pounds where they put on that beautiful marbling
the intramuscular fat that makes it so special